In this section, we'll learn a way to tell overfitting,
under-fitting and a good model.
So, here we have our data three times.
Our data seems to be well split by a quadratic equation of degree two.
So, we're going to try and fit three models.
The first one, a linear or degree one model,
which doesn't do a very good job since it under fits so it's a high bias model.
The second one, a quadratic model of degree two, which is just right.
And the third one, a higher degree polynomial of degree
six which over fits so it's a high variance model.
Now, we'll draw some curves that will be able to tell these models apart.
Let's start here with a high bias linear model.
We're going to start training the model with
very few points and increase the number of points gradually.
If we train this model with say four points,
we can do a pretty good job fitting the training set.
So we have a tiny training error which we'll plot in the graph in the right,
but once we evaluate in the cross-validation data,
well, since we have trained them all on only four points,
it cannot be a very good model so it probably has a pretty high cross validation error.
We won't show the cross validation set,
but you can pretty much imagine any other random subset of this data.
We plot the cross violation error over here,
and now we increase to eight points and we train the linear model again.
The training error may increase a bit since it's harder to fit eight points than four,
but since we have a slightly better model and we've used more data to train it,
then maybe the cross validation error has decreased a bit
but not much since it's a linear model trying to fit quadratic data.
Here are the training and cross validation errors in the graph.
Now, we increase to 12 points and we train the model again.
Once more, the training error may increase a bit since there's more training data to fit,
but the cross validation error will also decrease a
bit since we have a better model to train with more data,
but it still won't decrease by much.
It seems that as we increase the number of points more and more,
the training error will keep increasing and the testing error will
keep decreasing so if we draw these two curves,
they'll get closer and closer to each other,
and maybe converge at some point.
The point they converge should be high anyway since we don't
expect these models to have small error as they are under-fitting.
Now, let's do the exact same thing with
the quadratic model so let's remember that this is the good model.
Training with four points, just as before,
we can do pretty well in the training set so we have a small training error,
but since we trained the model in very few points,
we probably didn't do very well in the cross validation
set so our cross validation error is large.
Now, if we increased to eight points, again,
our training error increases since we have more points to fit,
but since our model knows more as it's trained on more points,
then the cross validation error has decreased and if we go to 12 points,
the same thing happens again.
Training error increases, cross validation error decreases.
So, as before, these curves get closer and closer to each other except,
now they convert to a lower point since the model is
good and we expect expect it to have small error.
Finally, let's do the same thing with the degree six model.
Let's remember that this is the model that over fits.
Let's train with four points.
Again, we can fit four points very easily so we have a small training error.
And again, as we don't have very much information for a point six model,
probably didn't do very well in the cross validation set,
so we have a large cross validation error.
Now, if we increase the training set to eight points,
we have a slightly large training error and
a slightly smaller testing error just like before.
Now, if we increase the training set to eight points,
then we have a slightly larger training error and
a slightly smaller cross validation error and
this happens again for 12 points as we've seen before,
but now, something interesting happens.
The training error will never grow too large
since models that overfit tend to do very well in
the training set as they can fit it very well
and the cross validation error will never get too low,
since as we've seen models that overfit do not do very well in the cross validation set.
As we increase the number of points,
these two curves will get closer,
but will not converge to the same point.
There will always be a distance between them.
In summary, here we have three models: the high bias,
the good one and the high variance.
In the high bias or underfitting model,
the curves get close to each other and converge to a high point.
In the good model, the curves again,
go close to each other and converge to a low point,
and in the high variance or overfitting model,
the curves do not get close to each other.
The training one stays low and the cross validation one stays high.
So this is a way to tell between under-fitting,
overfitting, and just right.
We just look at the learning curves and see what shape they form.